
@menu
* General choices::             
* Functionalities of the interface at level 0::  
* Functionalities of the interface at level 1::  
@end menu

@c ===================================================================
@node General choices, Functionalities of the interface at level 0, APRON Rationale and Functionalities, APRON Rationale and Functionalities
@section General choices
@c ===================================================================

@menu
* Interface levels::            
* Programming language::        
* Compatibility with threads::  
* Interruptions::               
* Memory management::           
* Programming style::           
* Number representation::       
@end menu

@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@node Interface levels, Programming language, General choices, General choices
@subsubheading Interface levels

There are two main goals for the APRON interface: efficiency of the
implementations, and ease of use for the user. In addition, code
duplication between libraries should be avoided. As a consequence, two
levels were identified:
@table @emph
@item Level 0 
Choices are guided by the efficiency and the precision of the operations;
@item Level 1
Choices are guided by ease of use, and code factorization.
@end table

The level 0 is directly connected to the underlying (existing)
library. It includes all the operations that are specific to an
abstract domain and whose code cannot be shared. The interface should
be minimal, @emph{unless} there is a strong algorithmical advantage to
include a combination of more basic operations.

The higher levels offers additional functionalities that are shared by
all the library connected to the level 0. For instance:

@itemize
@item
managing correspondance between numerical dimensions and names
(characters strings or more generally references);
@item
abstraction of non linear expressions in interval linear expressions;
@item
automatic call to redimensioning and permutation operations for
computing
@iftex 
@tex
$P(x,y)\sqcap Q(y,z)$
@end tex 
@end iftex
@ifnottex
P(x,y)/\Q(y,z).
@end ifnottex
@end itemize

Combination of abstract domain is possible at the level 0. One can
implement for instance the cartesian or reduced product of two
different abstract domains, the decomposition of abstract values into
a product of values of smaller dimensionality, ...

@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@node Programming language, Compatibility with threads, Interface levels, General choices
@subsubheading Programming language

The reference version of the interface is the C version of the interface:

@itemize
@item
C can be easily interfaced with most programming languages;
@item
Most of the existing libraries implementing abstract domains for
numerical variables are programmed in C or C++.
@end itemize

An @sc{OCaml} version is already available. The interface between
OCaml and C is even generic and any libraries can benefit from it by
just providing the glue for the function creating a manager.

@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@node Compatibility with threads, Interruptions, Programming language, General choices
@subsubheading Compatibility with threads

In order to ensure compatibility with multithreading programming, a
context is explicitly passed to functions in order to ensure the
following points:

@itemize
@item
the transmission of data specific to each library (non-standard
options, workspace, ...);
@item
the transmission of standard options (selection of algorithms and their
precision inside a library);
@item
the management of exceptions (implemented as error codes in the C
interface) (@code{not_implemented}, @code{invalid_argument},
@code{overflow}, @code{timeout}, @code{out_of_space}).
@end itemize

@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@node Interruptions, Memory management, Compatibility with threads, General choices
@subsubheading Interruptions

Interruption mechanisms can have different causes:
@table @code
@item timeout
if the execution time for an operation exceeds some bound;
@item out_of_space
if the space consumption for an operation exceeds some bound;
@item overflow
if the magnitude or the space usage of manipulated numbers exceeds some bound;
@item not_implemented
if the operation is actually not implemented by the underlying library;
@item invalid_argument
if the arguments do not follow the requirements of an operation.
@end table

@quotation 
For instance, in a convex polyhedra library, the @code{out_of_space}
exception allows to abort an operation is the result appears to have
too many constraints and/or generators. If this happens, one can redo
the operation with another (less precise) algorithm. The
@code{overflow} may be useful when effective overflows are encountered
with machine integers or when multiprecision rational numbers have too
large numerators and denominators. The @code{not_implemented}
exception allows for a library to be linked to the interface even if
it does not provide some operation of the interface.
@end quotation

When an interruption occurs, the function should still return a
correct result, in the abstract interpretation sense: it should be a
correct approximation, usable for next operations in the program. The
top value is always a correct approximation.

@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@node Memory management, Programming style, Interruptions, General choices
@subsubheading Memory management

Memory is managed differently depending on the programming language. Currently:

@itemize
@item
No automatic garbage collection in the C interface
@item
Use of the @sc{OCaml} runtime garbage collector in the @sc{OCaml} interface
@end itemize

@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@node Programming style, Number representation, Memory management, General choices
@subsubheading Programming style

Both functional and imperative (i.e., side-effect) signatures are
supported for operations. This allows to optimize the memory
allocation and to use whichever version is more convenient for an user
and the used programming language.

@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@node Number representation,  , Programming style, General choices
@subsubheading Number representation

Inside a specific library, any number representation may be used
(floating-point numbers, machine integers, multiprecision
integers/rationals, ...). Existing libraries often offers the
possibility to select different representations.

However, in the interface, this representation should be normalized
and independent of underlying libraries, without being restrictive
either. As a consequence, the interface offers the choiced between

@itemize
@item GMP multiprecision rationals (which implements exact arithmetic);
@item and machine floating-point numbers (@code{double}).
@end itemize

@c ===================================================================
@node Functionalities of the interface at level 0, Functionalities of the interface at level 1, General choices, APRON Rationale and Functionalities
@section Functionalities of the interface at level 0
@c ===================================================================

@menu
* Representation of an abstract value::  
* Semantics of an abstract value::  
* Dimensions::                  
* Other datatypes::             
* Control of internal representation::  
* Printing::                    
* Serializaton/Deserialization::  
* Constructors::                
* Tests::                       
* Property extraction::         
* Lattice operations::          
* Assignement and Substitutions::  
* Operations on dimensions::    
* Other operations::            
@end menu


@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@node Representation of an abstract value, Semantics of an abstract value, Functionalities of the interface at level 0, Functionalities of the interface at level 0
@subsubheading Representation of an abstract value

At the level 0 of the interface, an abstract value is a structure
@verbatim
struct ap_abstract0_t {
  ap_manager_t *manager; /* Explicit context */
  void         *value;   /* Abstract value representation
			    (only known by the underlying library) */
}
@end verbatim
The context is allocated by the underlying library, and contains an
array of function pointers pointing to the function of the underlying
library. Hence, it indicates the effective type of an abstract value.

The validity of the arguments of the functions called through the
interface is checked before the call to effective functions. In case
of problem, an @code{invalid_argument} exception is raised.

@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@node Semantics of an abstract value, Dimensions, Representation of an abstract value, Functionalities of the interface at level 0
@subsubheading Semantics of an abstract value

The semantics of an abstract value is a subset
@iftex 
@tex
$$X\subseteq {\cal N}^p\times{\cal R}^q$$
@end tex 
@end iftex
@ifnottex
@quotation
X of N^p x R^q
@end quotation
@end ifnottex

@noindent Abstract values are typed according to their dimensionality
(p,q).

@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@node Dimensions, Other datatypes, Semantics of an abstract value, Functionalities of the interface at level 0
@subsubheading Dimensions
Dimensions are numbered from 0 to p+q-1 and are typed either as
integer or real, depending on their rank w.r.t. the dimensionality of
the abstract value.

@quotation Note
Taking into account or not the fact that some dimensions are integers
is left to underlying libraries. Treating them as real is still a
correct approximation. The behaviour of the libraries in this regard
may also depend on some options.
@end quotation

@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@node Other datatypes, Control of internal representation, Dimensions, Functionalities of the interface at level 0
@subsubheading Other datatypes

In addition to abstract values, the interface also manipulates the
following main datatypes:
@table @emph
@item scalar (number)
Either GMP multiprecision rationals or C @code{double}.
@item interval
composed of 2 scalar numbers. With rationals, plus (resp minus) infinity is represented by 1/0 (resp -1/0). With @code{double}, the IEEE754 is assumed and the corresponding standard representation is used.
@item coefficient
which is either a scalar or an interval.
@item (interval) linear expression
The term linear is used even if the proper term should rather be
affine.  A linear expression is a linear expression in the common
sense, using only scalar numbers. A quasi-linear expression is a
linear expression where the constant coefficient is an interval. An
interval linear expression is a linear expression where any
coefficient may be an interval. In order to have a unique datatype for
these variations, we introduced the notion of coefficient described
above.
@item ``linear'' constraints 
``Linear'' constraints includes proper linear constraints, linear
constraints in which the expression can be possibly an interval linear
expression, linear equalities modulo a number, and linear disequalities.
@item generators
A generator system for a subset of @math{X\subseteq R^n} is a finite
set of vectors, among which one distinguishes @emph{points}
@math{p_0,\ldots,p_m} and @emph{rays} @math{r_0,\ldots,r_n}, that
generates @math{X}:
@iftex 
@tex
$$X=\{ \lambda_0 \vec{p_0} + \ldots \lambda_m \vec{p_m} + \mu_0 \vec{r_0} +\ldots + \mu_n \vec{r_n} ~|~ \sum_i \lambda_i = 1 ~\wedge~ \forall j: \mu_j\geq 0 \}$$
@end tex 
@end iftex
@ifnottex
@quotation
X = @{ lambda0 p0 +...+ lambdaM pM + mu0 r0 +...+ muN rN | lambda0 +...+ lambdaN = 1 and forall J : muJ >= 0 @}
@end quotation
@end ifnottex
The APRON datatype for generators distinguishes points (sum of
coefficients equal to one), rays (positive coefficients), lines (or
bidirectional rays, with unconstrainted coefficients), integer rays
(integer positive coefficients) and integer lines (integer
coefficients).
@end table

@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@node Control of internal representation, Printing, Other datatypes, Functionalities of the interface at level 0
@subsubheading Control of internal representation

We identified several notions:

@itemize
@item
Canonical form
@item
Minimal form (in term of space)
@item
Approximation notion left to the underlying library (taking into
account integers or not, ...).
@end itemize

@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@node Printing, Serializaton/Deserialization, Control of internal representation, Functionalities of the interface at level 0
@subsubheading Printing

There are two printing operations:

@itemize
@item
Printing of an abstract value;
@item
Printing the difference between two abstract values.
@end itemize

@noindent The printing format is library dependent. However, the conversion of
abstract values to constraints (see below) allows a form of
standardized printing for abstract values.

@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@node Serializaton/Deserialization, Constructors, Printing, Functionalities of the interface at level 0
@subsubheading Serializaton/Deserialization

Serialization and deserialization of abstract values to a memory
buffer is offered. It is entirely managed by the underlying
library. In particular, it is up to it to check that a value read from
the memory buffer has the right format and has not been written by a
different library.

Serialization is done to a memory buffer instead of to a file
descriptor because this mechanism is more general and is needed for
interfacing with languages like @sc{OCaml}.

@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@node Constructors, Tests, Serializaton/Deserialization, Functionalities of the interface at level 0
@subsubheading Constructors

Four basic constructors are offered:

@itemize
@item
bottom (empty) and top (universe) values (with a specified dimensionality);
@item
abstraction of a bounding box;
@item
abstraction of conjunction of linear constraints (in the broad sense).
@end itemize

@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@node Tests, Property extraction, Constructors, Functionalities of the interface at level 0
@subsubheading Tests

Predicates are offered for testing
@itemize
@item
emptiness and universality of an abstract value:
@item
inclusion and equality of two abstract values;
@item
inclusion of a dimension into an interval given an abstract value;
@iftex
@tex
$${\it abs}(\vec{x}) \models x_i \in I ~~ ?$$
@end tex
@end iftex
@item
satisfaction of a linear constraint by the abstract value.
@iftex
@tex
$${\it abs}(\vec{x}) \models {\it cons}(\vec{x}) ~~ {\tt or} ~~ {\it abs}(\vec{x}) \Rightarrow {\it cons}(\vec{x}) ~~ ?$$
@end tex
@end iftex
@end itemize

@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@node Property extraction, Lattice operations, Tests, Functionalities of the interface at level 0
@subsubheading Property extraction

Some properties may be inferred given an abstract value:

@itemize
@item Interval of variation of a dimension in an abstract value;
@iftex
@tex
$$\bigcap\{ I ~|~ {\it abs}(\vec{x}) \models x_i\in I\}$$
@end tex
@end iftex

@item Interval of variation of a linear expression in an abstract value;
@iftex
@tex
$$\bigcap\{ I ~|~ {\it abs}(\vec{x}) \models {\it expr}(\vec{x})\in I\}$$
@end tex
@end iftex
@item Conversion to a bounding box
@iftex
@tex
$$\bigcap\{ B ~|~ {\it abs}(\vec{x}) \subseteq B \}$$
@end tex
@end iftex
@item Conversion to a set of linear constraints (in the broad sense).
@end itemize

@noindent Notice that the second operation implements linear programming if it
is exact. The third operation is not minimal, as it can be implemented
using the first one, but it was convenient to include it. But the
fourth operation is minimal and cannot be implemented using the second
one, as the number of linear expression is infinite.

@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@node Lattice operations, Assignement and Substitutions, Property extraction, Functionalities of the interface at level 0
@subsubheading Lattice operations

@itemize
@item
Least upper bound and greatest lower bound of two abstract values, and of arrays of abstract values;
@item
Intersection with one or several linear constraints;
@iftex
@tex
$$\alpha\left(\gamma({\it abs}(\vec{x})) \cap \bigcap_i {\it cons}_i(\vec{x})\right)$$
@end tex
@end iftex
@item
Addition of rays (for instance for implement generalized time elapse
operator in linear hybrid systems).
@iftex
@tex
$$\alpha\left(\left\{ \vec{x} + \sum_i \lambda_i \vec{r}_i ~|~ \vec{x}\in\gamma({\it abs}), \lambda_i\geq 0\right\}\right)$$
@end tex
@end iftex
@end itemize

@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@node Assignement and Substitutions, Operations on dimensions, Lattice operations, Functionalities of the interface at level 0
@subsubheading Assignement and Substitutions

@itemize
@item
of a dimension by a (interval) linear expression
@iftex
@tex

Assignement:
$$\alpha\left(\biggl(
\exists x_i: \Bigl(\gamma({\it abs}(\vec{x})) \cap x_i'={\it expr}(\vec{x})\Bigr)\biggr)[x_i\leftarrow x_i']\right)$$
Substitution:
$$\alpha\biggl(
\exists x_i': \Bigl(\gamma({\it abs}(\vec{x}))[x_i'\leftarrow x_i] \cap x_i'={\it expr}(\vec{x})\Bigr)\biggr)$$

@end tex
@end iftex
@item
in parallel of several dimensions by several (interval) linear expressions
@iftex
@tex

Assignement:
$$\alpha\left(\biggl(
\exists \vec{x}: \Bigl(\gamma({\it abs}(\vec{x})) \cap \bigcap_i x_i'={\it expr}_i(\vec{x})\Bigr)\biggr)[\vec{x}\leftarrow \vec{x'}]\right)$$
Substitution:
$$\alpha\biggl(
\exists \vec{x'}: \Bigl(\gamma({\it abs}(\vec{x'})) \cap \bigcap_i x_i'={\it expr}(\vec{x})\Bigr)\biggr)$$

@end tex
@end iftex
@end itemize

@noindent Parallel assignement and substitution ar enot minimal operations, but
for some abstract domains implementing them directly results in more
efficient or more precise operations.

@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@node Operations on dimensions, Other operations, Assignement and Substitutions, Functionalities of the interface at level 0
@subsubheading Operations on dimensions

@itemize
@item
Projection/Elimination of one or several dimensions with constant
dimensionality;
@iftex
@tex

Elimination: $$\exists x_i:{\it abs}(\vec{x})$$

Projection: $$(\exists x_i:{\it abs}(\vec{x}))\cap x_i=0$$
@end tex
@end iftex
@item
Addition/Removal/Permutation of dimensions with corresponding change
of dimensionality (with the exception of permutation). These
operations allows to resize abstract values, and reorganize
dimensions.
@item
Expansion and folding of dimensions. This is useful for the
abstraction of arrays, where a dimension may represent several
variables.
@iftex
@tex

Expansion of $i$ into $i$, $j_1$, $j_2$ assuming $x_{j_1}$, $x_{j_2}$ are new dimensions:
$${\it abs}(\vec{x}) \sqcap {\it abs}(\vec{x})[x_{j_1}\leftarrow x_i] \sqcap {\it abs}(\vec{x})[x_{j_2}\leftarrow x_i] ...
$$
Folding of $j_0$ and $j_1$ into $j_0$:
$$(\exists x_{j_1}:{\it abs}(\vec{x})) \sqcup (\exists x_{j_0}:{\it abs}(\vec{x})[x_{j_0}\leftarrow x_{j_1}] 
$$
@end tex
@end iftex


@end itemize

@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@node Other operations,  , Operations on dimensions, Functionalities of the interface at level 0
@subsubheading Other operations

Widening, either simple or with threshold, is offered. A generic
widening with threshold function is offered in the interface.

Topological closure (i.e., relaxation of strict inequalities) is
offered.

@c ===================================================================
@node Functionalities of the interface at level 1,  , Functionalities of the interface at level 0, APRON Rationale and Functionalities
@section Functionalities of the interface at level 1
@c ===================================================================

We focus on the changes brought by the level 1 w.r.t. the level 0.

@menu
* Variables and Environments::  
* Semantics and Representation of an abstract value::  
* Operations on environments::  
* Dynamic typing w.r.t. environments::  
* Operations on variables in abstract values::  
@end menu

@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@node Variables and Environments, Semantics and Representation of an abstract value, Functionalities of the interface at level 1, Functionalities of the interface at level 1
@subsubheading Variables

Dimensions are replaced by @emph{variables}.

In the C interface, variables are defined by a generic type
(@code{char*}, structured type, ...), equipped with the operations
@code{compare}, @code{copy}, @code{free}, @code{to_string}. In the
@sc{OCaml}, for technical reasons, the type is just the @code{string}
type.

@emph{Environments} manages the correspondance between the numerical
dimensions of level 0 and the variables of level 1.

@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@node Semantics and Representation of an abstract value, Operations on environments, Variables and Environments, Functionalities of the interface at level 1
@subsubheading Semantics and Representation of an abstract value

The semantics of an abstract value is a subset
@iftex 
@tex
$$X\subseteq V\rightarrow ({\cal N}\cup{\cal R})$$
@end tex 
@end iftex
@ifnottex
@quotation
X -> (N+R).
@end quotation
@end ifnottex
where @math{X} is a set of variables.
@noindent
Abstract values are typed according to their environment.

It is represented by a structure
@verbatim
struct ap_abstract1_t {
  ap_abstract0_t    *abstract0;
  ap_environment_t  *env;
};
@end verbatim
Other datatypes of level 0 are extend in the same way. For instance,
@verbatim
struct ap_linexpr1_t {
  ap_linexpr0_t    *linexpr0;
  ap_environment_t *env;
};
@end verbatim

@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@node Operations on environments, Dynamic typing w.r.t. environments, Semantics and Representation of an abstract value, Functionalities of the interface at level 1
@subsubheading Operations on environments

@itemize
@item creation, merging, destruction
@item addition/removal/renaming of variables
@end itemize

@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@node Dynamic typing w.r.t. environments, Operations on variables in abstract values, Operations on environments, Functionalities of the interface at level 1
@subsubheading Dynamic typing w.r.t. environments

For binary operations on abstract values, the environments should be
the same.

For operations involving an abstract value and an other datatype
(expression, constraint, ...), one checks that the environment of
the expression is a subenvironment of the environment of the abstract
value, and one resize if necessary.

@c -------------------------------------------------------------------
@node Operations on variables in abstract values,  , Dynamic typing w.r.t. environments, Functionalities of the interface at level 1
@subsubheading Operations on variables in abstract values

Operations on dimensions are lifted to operations on variables:

@itemize
@item
Projection/Elimination of one or several variables with constant
environment;
@item
Addition/Removal/Renaming of variables with corresponding change
of environment;
@item
Change of environment (possibly combining removal and addition of variables);
@item
Expansion and folding of variables. 
@end itemize
